Gantt filtering[duda] (#2989)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: concepts/05 UI Components/Gantt/20 Filter Data/2 Header Filter.md

> The **Gantt** component allows users to filter a particular column by values listed in a pop-up window. Users click the filter icon to invoke the window and select the necessary filter criteria for a column. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Gantt** component allows users to filter a particular column by values listed in a pop-up window. Users can click the filter icon to invoke the window and select the necessary filter criteria for a column. 
```

Set the **headerFilter**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/headerFilter/#visible) property to **true** to display filter icons for all columns. Assign **false** to the [allowHeaderFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#allowHeaderFiltering) property for a column to disable its filter icon. If this property is not specified, the filtering option depends on the [allowFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#allowFiltering) property's value.

![DevExtreme HTML5 JavaScript jQuery Knockout Angular Gantt Filtering HeaderFilter](/images/Gantt/Visual_elements/Header_filter.png)

#include common-demobutton with {
    url: "https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/Gantt/HeaderFilter/"
}

> You can use a column's [filterType](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#filterType) property to specify initial settings of header fiter items: all checked (`filterType=exclude`) or all unchecked (`filterType=include`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a column's [filterType](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#filterType) property to specify initial settings of header filter items: all checked (`filterType=exclude`) or all unchecked (`filterType=include`).
```

Author: Thanks!

![DevExtreme HTML5 JavaScript jQuery Knockout Angular Gantt Filtering HeaderFilter](/images/Gantt/Visual_elements/Header_filter_SelectAll.png)

> The header filter contains unique column values. You can group these values with the [groupInterval](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#groupInterval) property or bind the header filter to a [data source](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#dataSource).

Reviewer: > You can group these values **with** the [groupInterval](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#groupInterval) property or bind the header filter to a [data source](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#dataSource).

Again, a strange preposition choice. You can read this as "To group these values together with the `groupInterval` property...", and I believe you wouldn't want that.

Author: What do you think if I change it as follows?

The header filter contains unique column values. You can change them in the following ways:
*  Use the [groupInterval](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#groupInterval) property to group filter values.
* Bind the header filter to a [data source](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#dataSource).

Reviewer: OK. A more structured version is a better-looking version.

Author: ```suggestion
The header filter contains unique column values. You can change them in the following ways:

* Use the [groupInterval](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#groupInterval) property to group filter values.

* Bind the header filter to a [data source](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/headerFilter/#dataSource).
```

            @* ... *@
        })
        .HeaderFilter(e => {
            e.Visible(true)
            e.allowSearch(true);
        })
        
        // ...
    )

##### ASP.NET MVC Controls

    <!--Razor C#-->
    @(Html.DevExtreme().Gantt()
        .Columns(columns => {
            columns.AddFor(m => m.Title)
                .DataField("title")
                .Caption("Subject")
                .FilterType(FilterType.Exclude)
                .HeaderFilter(headerFilter => headerFilter.SearchMode(CollectionSearchMode.StartsWith));

            columns.AddFor(m => m.Title)
                .DataField("start")
                .Caption("Start Date")
                .AllowHeaderFiltering(false)
            
            columns.AddFor(m => m.Title)
                .DataField("end")
                .Caption("End Date")
                .HeaderFilter(headerFilter => headerFilter.GroupInterval(HeaderFilterGroupInterval.Month));
            @* ... *@
        })
        .HeaderFilter(e => {
            e.Visible(true);
            e.allowSearch(true);
        })
        
        // ...
    )

---

> The **Gantt** allows you to define initial filter settings in code. Specify a column's [filterValues](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#filterValues) property to apply the filter criteria to the column. 

Reviewer: > The **Gantt** allows you to define initial filter settings in code. Specify a column's [filterValues](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#filterValues) property to apply **the** filter criteria to the column.

Of which filter criteria do we speak exactly?

Author: I've taken the definite article based on the previously mentioned initial filter settings. Such as "we can specify some initial filter settings, and to specify the filter criteria (concrete/defined), use..". But I'm not sure about that logic, so I would like to listen your opinion

Reviewer: I could have understand your approach if you were referring to some filter criteria you mentioned earlier on (in code example, for instance). But here, the first sentence describes the situation in general: the X property allows you to define some settings. It's completely fine. As for the second sentence, "default initial filter settings" and "the filter criteria" are not identical, they do not refer to the same thing.

Author: Okay, I'll take the indefinite article

Reviewer: That depends on what did you want to say here. If you do not need an emphasis on specific settings (initial, etc.), then you can just omit the definite article at "filter criteria" and be done with it. If you need to emphasize the fact that you customize the initial filter settings, just say so. For example:

```suggestion
The **Gantt** allows you to define initial filter settings in code. Specify a column's [filterValues](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#filterValues) property to customize the column's initial filter settings. 
```

Just remember that there's no connection between "settings" and "criteria" until you explicitly declare it.

Author: ```suggestion
The **Gantt** allows you to define initial filter settings in code. Specify the [filterValues](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#filterValues) property for a column to customize its filter settings. 
```

Reviewer: OK

> The **Gantt** component allows users to filter a particular column by values listed in a pop-up window. Users click the filter icon to invoke the window and select the necessary filter criteria for a column. 

Reviewer 2: `the necessary filter criteria` Why do you add 'necessary'?

Author: I've used it as `what a user needs among the list of settings`. But if you think that use of this word is wordiness, we can remove it

Author: ```suggestion
The **Gantt** component allows users to filter a particular column by values listed in a pop-up window. Users click the filter icon to invoke the window and select the filter criteria for a column. 
```

Set the **headerFilter**.[visible](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/headerFilter/#visible) property to **true** to display filter icons for all columns. Assign **false** to the [allowHeaderFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#allowHeaderFiltering) property for a column to disable its filter icon. If this property is not specified, the filtering option depends on the [allowFiltering](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#allowFiltering) property's value.

![DevExtreme HTML5 JavaScript jQuery Knockout Angular Gantt Filtering HeaderFilter](/images/Gantt/Visual_elements/Header_filter.png)

#include common-demobutton with {
    url: "https://js.devexpress.com/Demos/WidgetsGallery/Demo/Gantt/HeaderFilter/"
}

> You can use a column's [filterType](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#filterType) property to specify initial settings of header filter items: all checked (`filterType=exclude`) or all unchecked (`filterType=include`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use a column's [filterType](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxGantt/Configuration/columns/#filterType) property to specify the initial settings of header filter items: all checked (`filterType=exclude`) or all unchecked (`filterType=include`).
```

Author: Thanks!
